Hi everybody physics and then you hear I'm going to look at a problem again a DC circuit problem here
and I want to calculate what is the power kind of deliver to the resistor or the power being dissipated
by the resistor would be kind of a maybe a better way to say it.
So we've got a simple circuit here.
You've got one power supplies of 20 power supply.
You have got four resistors they're kind of set up in a way to try to make the problem a little bit
harder.
So let's see how you set up this problem how you can calculate the energy dissipated in those resistors.
So here's the circuit.
I guess the first thing we want to do is just remember how you calculate power in a simple circuit like
this so we dealing with power supplies and batteries actually all three cases the power can be calculated.
Typically if you're talking to will power supplies you can usually just write it like this it's the
voltage multiplied by the current flowing through the battery.
That'll tell you the power being supplied by the battery.
This formula also applies for the power being dissipated.
The only thing you have to remember is that the V for that case is simply the potential drop across
that resistor.
So a lot of times when you're talking about resistors sometimes instead of writing V you multiply her
or you substitute the value of the voltage drop across that resistor which is given by Ohm's law and
you still have the original that I had here.
So this can get combined as our eyes square.
This is kind of a more standard form when you're talking about resistors.
You can also eliminate the current again using Ohm's law if you eliminate the current this kind of the
same the same equation written three different ways and you can write is this V squared over our aim
for what follows.
For the resistors I'll calculate this for the power supply I'll use this form which means I need to
know the current.
I need to know the current flowing through the battery and I need to know the current flowing through
each one of these resistors.
Now there are several loops of this.
There are several branches of the circuit so you have to be a little bit careful.
So the first thing I'm going to do is I'm going to label some currents here I'm going to call the current
over here.
I one that's the current flowing all the way up until this branch.
And that means it's also the same current that's going to flow through that's for ohm resistor down
here this is still the same current one.
Now once it gets to this junction Well part of that current is going to flow down through the 1 ohm
resistor.
Let's call this Aitu.
And part of that current is also going to flow through this branch over here let's call this i3.
So we need to find what those currents are.
Then after I can easily find what power is being dissipated by each one of those first thing I'm going
to do let's actually find how much current is flowing in this section over here what is the current
I want and the easiest way to do this one actually is to try to simplify this network.
This is one of those networks that can simplify using an equivalent resistor.
And the reason I want to do that is because it's the easiest way to find how much current is flowing
through this battery.
So we're going to do first is I'm going to combine everything here and this kind of yellow box because
I've got two resistors here that are in parallel with each other.
So everything in the yellow box here I can combine them.
We call this our equivalent however let me just call it our equivalent.
And we put a one here because it's not a total equivalent resistor it's really only what's in this shaded
yellow area.
All right so hard to resist there is in parallel with each other which means one over our equivalent
which gives me one over one plus one over three this is three over three plus one over three is me for
over three which means that both of those can be combined to give me one equivalent resistor which I've
called our equivalent one equal to three over four ohms so that simplifies it now because that means
that the total equivalent resistor I'm going to have a 2 ohm that is in series with a three over four
ohm resistor that's also in series with a four Omers this there so the total equivalent resistance.
Let me write toto like this for this guy.
It's going to be two plus three or four plus four.
You put things on a common denominator and all four is a common denominator for that.
This will be eight plus three plus 16 eleven twenty seven 27 over 4 is the equivalent resistance of
this entire network.
So once you have this that means that this complicated circuit can be simplified into something that
simply looks like this a 20 volt battery that is connected to one equivalent resistance equal to 27
over four.
That's pretty simple.
That's the simplest circuit you can ask for.
Again this would be 27 over for ohms.
So you can actually solve for what that current is and really what that current is that's the current
flowing through the battery which is also the current flowing through the tool resistor which is the
current flowing through the forum is there.
So at the end what you end up getting here is that you get 20.
That's the voltage across this branch has to be the voltage drop across the equivalent resistance which
is the value of the resistance 20 over four multiplied by the current.
And it's really the current I won here that I'm looking in.
So with this you're able to solve for what the current is in that leftmost branch of the circuit I won
gives me 80 over 27 amps.
I mean to leave things at a fraction.
You can write as a decimal if you wanted to but I kind of like it as a fraction like this just my own
personal preference.
All right so we're almost done now we need to find what are the current Aitu and i3.
For that I notice here that I have a junction here I have some current flowing into the junction and
I also have some current flowing out of the junction.
This means that I can write a junction rule which says whatever flows in has to be what's flowing out.
This is Aitu plus i3.
Now I'm not quite done.
I know what I one is.
However I don't know what I 2 and I 3R But given that both of these resistors the one and the three
ohm resistor are in parallel with each other.
That means that the voltage drop across each branch here has to be the same.
So the voltage drop across the 1 ohm resistor is simply one.
That's the value of the resistance multiplied by the current flowing through it.
Aitu that has to be equal to the voltage drop across these three ohm resistor which is three multiplied
by the current flowing through that resistor i3.
So at the end what you can do now is you can simply solve.
Now we have everything we need in order to solve for what I two and three are.
So let's go ahead and do that.
So we have I one must be equal to OK.
We have to either eliminate two or three let's eliminate Aitu.
So that's three three plus i3 which gives me four i3 So at the end I three is simply I one divided by
four that gives me 20 over 27.
And the last one is Aitu.
Well two is simply three times three three times I three three times 20 over 27 which gives me 60 over
27.
And again everything all the currents are measured in amps here.
OK so we've got our three values of occurrence.
Now let's go ahead on the next page and look at what the power is dissipated in all those three resistors.
So here are my three currents.
I want to i3.
Let's start by the power being supplied to the circuit that's the power being applied by this battery.
This is give it a little b over here.
That's simply the voltage of the battery multiplied by the current.
So it's pretty straightforward it's 20 multiplied by how much current was in this branch that was the
current one.
This was 80 over 27.
That means this guy here is 6500 over 27 that's the power being supplied by the battery you could substitute
that in your calculator.
I think I get 59 point to six watts or let's have a look at all these resistors Now let's do the power
being dissipated by the tumor this there the power being dissipated by the Forum resistor power being
dissipated by the one ohm in the last one power being dissipated by the three on.
OK.
Again for this case since I'm looking at resistors I just calculate how much current flows through each
one of those.
It's probably easier to use the power being dissipated as are multiplied by the current squared.
So for the tool I get to multiplied by the current in that branch the current flowing through this tuum
resistor was 80 over 27.
And don't forget the square that all right you square 80 at 64 400 times two is 128 hundred twenty seven
squared is 7:29 all right power being dissipated in the form resistor is four times the same thing same
current.
Remember that current I won was the same everywhere down here same current flowing through the battery.
That was the current one.
All right so that means that the power being dissipated by the form this is simply two times this value.
That's easy.
That's 256 divided by 7:29.
All right the power being dissipated by the one ohm a little bit carefully remember the one on we had
a current Aitu flowing through that one and I too had a magnitude of 60 over 27.
So you get one is the value of the resistance multiplied by 60 over 27.
Don't forget the square at 3600 divided by 7:29.
Again all of these numbers here in Watts Watts and Watts and the last one is the three ohm resistor.
Careful that's not just three times the one ohm because the current is different.
So it's three times the current i3 was 20 over 27 a square that again everything is over 7:29 and what
do you get.
You get three times 20 squared is 400.
Gives me twelve hundred.
Now what I did was I added every single one here so 128 zero zero.
Twenty five thousand six hundred three thousand six hundred and twelve hundred.
You sum all of those up and what you end up getting everything is in over the same common denominator
at 729.
This is forty three thousand two hundred.
That is the total power being dissipated by these four resistors.
Now that doesn't look like the power being supplied.
However you have to put things on a common denominator.
Actually this one is not that obvious but if I would actually left it is Twenty-Seventh squared.
You could have guessed instead of writing 7:29 you write it like this as Twenty-Seventh squared.
And forty three thousand two hundred is actually 16:00 multiplied by 27.
So now you can see what happens.
One of these is going to cross off with one of those and lo and behold you get 16:00 over 27 which equals
fifty nine point to six so the total power being dissipated by the 4 resistors is simply equal to the
total power being delivered to the circuit by the battery.
The energy has to come from somewhere.
Whatever you put in from the battery has to be with being dissipated in those resistors.
All right there you have it folks that's how you kind of tackle a problem like this how I would do it.
I like to deal with fractions if you wanted to put in just punch those numbers in your calculator you're
free to do so.
Just be careful at the end when you add those up.
You might end up with a fraction or a decimal off one one hundredth of a watt off I wouldn't be too
concerned about that.
But just be a little bit careful with the rounding you might not get them equal to each other if you're
if you're not cautious.